README.md, before:

# Hertford & Ware Fundraising Group

Hertford & Ware Fundraising Group is a local volunteer run group located within Hertfordshire, the group fundraise to support the charatiable work of Guide Dogs for the Blind Association UK.

Developer: James Hodgkins
## Table of contents
1. [Overview](#overview)
2. [Design brief](#design-brief)
3. [Research](#research)
4. [Goals](#goals)  
    4.1 [Project goals](#project-goals)  
    4.2 [User goals](#user-goals)  
    4.3 [Site owner goals](#site-owner-goals)  
    4.4 [Target audience](#trget-audience)  
5. [User experience (UX)](#user-experience-ux)  
    [User stories](#user-stories)  
    5.1 [First time visitor](#first-time-visitor)  
    5.2 [Returning user](#returning-user)  
    5.3 [Site owner](#site-owner)
6. [Design](#design)  
    6.1 [Structure of pages](#structure-of-pages)  
    - [Header section](#header-section)  
    - [Blockquote area](#blockquote-area)  
    - [Main content area](#main-content-area)  
    - [Secondary main content area](#secondary-main-content-area)  
    - [Footer section](#footer-section)  

    6.2 [Wireframe designs](#wireframe-designs)
    - [HomePage](#homepage)
    - [About us page](#about-us-page)
    - [Fundraise page](#fundraise-page)
    - [Events & Collections page](#events--collections-page)
    - [Contact us page](#contact-us-page)
    - [Donate page](#donate-page)

## Overview
The Hertford and Ware Fundraising Group fundraising site is a website catering for a local community group of volunteers located within east Hertfordshire, the areas they fundraise are Hertford, Ware and Welwyn Garden City.
The website has been developed with its main purpose to provide a platform for current group members to stay up to date with upcoming events and collections, a platform that they can easily share their fundraising activities with friends, family, and those within the community to encourage new recruits to the fundraising group.  
The business purpose of the platform is to demonstrate an established community fundraising group to entice and instil confidence to other groups, schools or businesses to collaborate and encourage donations from donors to support the fundraising groups cause.  
The sites expected target audience will be to those that would like to fulfil volunteering time through work, to persons who have more available spare time and are looking to meet or join a group of people from within the local community.  
The website will provide to new visitors a well-rounded positive feeling site demonstrating local community spirit which will inspire and promote a positive feeling whilst providing excitement for new opportunities for those visiting to become involved in volunteering as well as make a monitory contribution if they wish bringing a warm feeling that they have played their part to made a difference to someone living with a visual impairment.

## Design brief
Plan, design and build a website for a local community fundraising group to increase their presence and raise awareness of their fundraising cause within the local community area, which will help to increase recruitment volunteer numbers and direct donations to the fundraising group.

## Research
Please view the [research](docs/research.md) document for details.
## Goals
### Project goals
- The project will provide a platform for residents living within Hertford, Ware or Welwyn Garden City in Hertfordshire to stay up to date with the group’s activities.
- The project will promote the fundraising group and encourage new local volunteer members.
- The project will promote the national charity, the services it offers and help encourage new fundraising volunteers and opportunities within the local area.  
### User goals
-  Find information about what the fundraising group does
-  Find information about upcoming and past fundraising activities 
-  Find information about what the group can offer to groups, schools, or businesses
-  Find information about volunteering for the group
-  Find ways to support the fundraising group  
### Site owner goals
Hertford and Ware fundraising group is interested in raising awareness of the group’s activities and highlight the efforts to the local town areas they cover, Hertford, Ware and Welwyn Garden City.  
The fundraising group would also like to achieve additional goals which are:  
-  Recruit new volunteers:  
The group wish to increase their events and collections throughout the year, the addition of more members will allow the group to have enough volunteers available throughout the year to meet the volunteer volume needed at the additional events or collections.  
-  Increase annual income:  
The fundraising group would like to increase their yearly total raised to help with the groups continuation and better support the local and national community of visually impaired users.  
The increase of income will help open up new event opportunities or business collaborations due to being able to plan, attend larger events.  
### Target audience
-  People from the local area looking to volunteer and fundraise
-  People looking to donate to a local cause
-  People looking to find out more about local Guide Dog events or collections
-  Groups, schools, or businesses looking to organise an information event or talk
-  Groups, schools, or businesses looking to fundraise for a local charity

## User experience (UX)
During project planning, it was decided to set an aim that all User journeys should aim to be completed in 3 clicks or less to provide an overall good user experience and provide a positive feeling when navigating the site and reaching the users intended destintion.  
The site has also kept in mind visually impaired users as the website content relates to this area of disability, because of this all elements of the website are keyboard and screen reader accessible. 
### User stories 
#### First time visitor
-  As a first-time site visitor to the website, I want to understand what the site’s purpose is so that I can decide if it interests me
-  As a first-time site visitor, I want to be able to easily navigate the site so I can find the areas I am interested in.
-  As a first-time site visitor, I want to immediately understand what areas the group covers so that I can determine if I am local to the group.
-  As a first-time site visitor, I want to know more about the fundraising group
-  As a first-time site visitor, I want to find out how to volunteer
-  As a first-time site visitor, I want to get a feel of what to expect if I want to volunteer for the group
-  As a first-time site visitor, I want to be able to donate to the group
-  As a first-time site visitor, I want to be able to ask a question
#### Returning user
-  As a returning visitor, I want to see the latest upcoming event
-  As a returning visitor, I want to know what roles are currently available within the group
-  As a returning visitor, I want to be able to ask a question regarding a service or collaboration
-  As a returning visitor, I want to view photos of past events or collections
-  As a returning visitor, I want to visit the fundraising groups social media pages
-  As a returning visitor, I want to know how to book a talk from a speaker/GDO/Puppy walker for my group, school
#### Site owner
-  As the site owner, I want visitors to find information about upcoming events or collections
-  As the site owner, I want visitors to understand what the groups fundraising goals are, to find out more about the main charity and how it helps visually impaired people.
-  As the site owner, I want the site visitors to be able to contact the group regarding a service or ask a general question
-  As the site owner, I want site visitors to be able to donate to the group easily.

## Design
The design of the website was kept clean, clear to understand with header, hero section and footer kept consistent across pages for a good user experience (UX)  
The website is bright and cheerful to reflect the feel of the fundraising group.  
As a person with a visual impairment, the website was designed with screen magnification and screen readers in mind.  
### Structure of pages
The website uses a responsive mobile first layout approach which reflows to a maximum width of 1140px which becomes centre aligned on the page to maximise the users direct eye contact.  
#### Header section
The website has a left aligned logo from Mobile through to Desktop.
Located to the right is the main navigation, which is also responsive, this remains right aligned until tablet size where it will collapse to a right aligned Hamburger menu (toggle button).  
On devices tablet and below the user can expand/collapse the menu using the menu toggle button, the menu never obstructs site content instead pushes it down to reveal the full available menu items.  
#### Blockquote area
The blockquote area is used to display factual and motivational messages over various pages, the messages are used on the donate page for example to inform what a donation means to a charity, another example on the homepage is a factual quote from the NHS which totals the number of people living in the UK with a sight issue.  
#### Main content area
The main area changes it content based on the page selected from the navigation but remains consistent in its content presentation by providing a full width card or half page width card.  
This approach was decided upon so a user would know quickly how many areas were available to explore.  
The main content area has also been set with a consistent background surround to show clearly where the main page content starts and ends.  
#### Secondary main content area
This section always appears below the main content and is presented like the main content area with a surround colour to mark the area.  
This section holds complementary content based on the page selected and is used to add additional relevant areas of interest, the area shows two half page width cards on Desktop with the left card being highlighted as the most important card in this section.  
#### Footer section
The footer section was designed to be clean and useful; the footer displays with two half page sections both providing options for the user to interact with.  
The left side contains a simple but effective message asking if they have a question, the user can select the link to be directed to the contact form no matter the page they are on.  
The right side displays all available social media channels using social media icons, these links will enable a user to select a social media channel but remain on the current site as all external links open in a new window.  

### Wireframe designs
Wireframe designs show Mobile, Tablet and Desktop views.  
The site was developed using a mobile first approach.
#### HomePage
<details><summary>Mobile</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/mobile/iPhone-HomePage.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of mobile home page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Tablet</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/tablet/iPad-HomePage.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of tablet home page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Desktop</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/desktop/Desktop-HomePage.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of desktop home page layout"></details>

#### About us page
<details><summary>Mobile</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/mobile/iPhone-who_we_are_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of mobile about us page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Tablet</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/tablet/iPad-who_we_are_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of tablet about us page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Desktop</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/desktop/Desktop-who_we_are_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of desktop about us page layout"></details>

#### Fundraise page
<details><summary>Mobile</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/mobile/iPhone-Fundraise_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of mobile fundraise page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Tablet</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/tablet/iPad-Fundraise_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of tablet fundraise page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Desktop</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/desktop/Desktop-Fundraise_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of desktop fundraise page layout"></details>

#### Events & Collections page
<details><summary>Mobile</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/mobile/iPhone-events_and_collections_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of mobile events and collections page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Tablet</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/tablet/iPad-events_and_collections_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of tablet events and collections page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Desktop</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/desktop/Desktop-events_and_collections_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of desktop events and collections page layout"></details>

#### Contact us page
<details><summary>Mobile</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/mobile/iPhone-Contact_us_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of mobile contact us page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Tablet</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/tablet/iPad-Contact_us_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of tablet contact us page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Desktop</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/desktop/Desktop-Contact_us_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of desktop contact us page layout"></details>

#### Donate page
<details><summary>Mobile</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/mobile/iPhone-Donate_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of mobile donate page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Tablet</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/tablet/iPad-Donate_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of tablet donate page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Desktop</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/desktop/Desktop-Donate_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of desktop donate page layout"></details>

Commit message:

docs: Colours section added to readme and TOC updated

README.md, after:

# Hertford & Ware Fundraising Group

Hertford & Ware Fundraising Group is a local volunteer run group located within Hertfordshire, the group fundraise to support the charatiable work of Guide Dogs for the Blind Association UK.

Developer: James Hodgkins
## Table of contents
1. [Overview](#overview)
2. [Design brief](#design-brief)
3. [Research](#research)
4. [Goals](#goals)  
    4.1 [Project goals](#project-goals)  
    4.2 [User goals](#user-goals)  
    4.3 [Site owner goals](#site-owner-goals)  
    4.4 [Target audience](#trget-audience)  
5. [User experience (UX)](#user-experience-ux)  
    [User stories](#user-stories)  
    5.1 [First time visitor](#first-time-visitor)  
    5.2 [Returning user](#returning-user)  
    5.3 [Site owner](#site-owner)
6. [Design](#design)  
    6.1 [Structure of pages](#structure-of-pages)  
    - [Header section](#header-section)  
    - [Blockquote area](#blockquote-area)  
    - [Main content area](#main-content-area)  
    - [Secondary main content area](#secondary-main-content-area)  
    - [Footer section](#footer-section)  

    6.2 [Wireframe designs](#wireframe-designs)
    - [HomePage](#homepage)
    - [About us page](#about-us-page)
    - [Fundraise page](#fundraise-page)
    - [Events & Collections page](#events--collections-page)
    - [Contact us page](#contact-us-page)
    - [Donate page](#donate-page)  
    
    6.3 [Colour palette](#colour-palette)


## Overview
The Hertford and Ware Fundraising Group fundraising site is a website catering for a local community group of volunteers located within east Hertfordshire, the areas they fundraise are Hertford, Ware and Welwyn Garden City.
The website has been developed with its main purpose to provide a platform for current group members to stay up to date with upcoming events and collections, a platform that they can easily share their fundraising activities with friends, family, and those within the community to encourage new recruits to the fundraising group.  
The business purpose of the platform is to demonstrate an established community fundraising group to entice and instil confidence to other groups, schools or businesses to collaborate and encourage donations from donors to support the fundraising groups cause.  
The sites expected target audience will be to those that would like to fulfil volunteering time through work, to persons who have more available spare time and are looking to meet or join a group of people from within the local community.  
The website will provide to new visitors a well-rounded positive feeling site demonstrating local community spirit which will inspire and promote a positive feeling whilst providing excitement for new opportunities for those visiting to become involved in volunteering as well as make a monitory contribution if they wish bringing a warm feeling that they have played their part to made a difference to someone living with a visual impairment.

## Design brief
Plan, design and build a website for a local community fundraising group to increase their presence and raise awareness of their fundraising cause within the local community area, which will help to increase recruitment volunteer numbers and direct donations to the fundraising group.

## Research
Please view the [research](docs/research.md) document for details.
## Goals
### Project goals
- The project will provide a platform for residents living within Hertford, Ware or Welwyn Garden City in Hertfordshire to stay up to date with the group’s activities.
- The project will promote the fundraising group and encourage new local volunteer members.
- The project will promote the national charity, the services it offers and help encourage new fundraising volunteers and opportunities within the local area.  
### User goals
-  Find information about what the fundraising group does
-  Find information about upcoming and past fundraising activities 
-  Find information about what the group can offer to groups, schools, or businesses
-  Find information about volunteering for the group
-  Find ways to support the fundraising group  
### Site owner goals
Hertford and Ware fundraising group is interested in raising awareness of the group’s activities and highlight the efforts to the local town areas they cover, Hertford, Ware and Welwyn Garden City.  
The fundraising group would also like to achieve additional goals which are:  
-  Recruit new volunteers:  
The group wish to increase their events and collections throughout the year, the addition of more members will allow the group to have enough volunteers available throughout the year to meet the volunteer volume needed at the additional events or collections.  
-  Increase annual income:  
The fundraising group would like to increase their yearly total raised to help with the groups continuation and better support the local and national community of visually impaired users.  
The increase of income will help open up new event opportunities or business collaborations due to being able to plan, attend larger events.  
### Target audience
-  People from the local area looking to volunteer and fundraise
-  People looking to donate to a local cause
-  People looking to find out more about local Guide Dog events or collections
-  Groups, schools, or businesses looking to organise an information event or talk
-  Groups, schools, or businesses looking to fundraise for a local charity

## User experience (UX)
During project planning, it was decided to set an aim that all User journeys should aim to be completed in 3 clicks or less to provide an overall good user experience and provide a positive feeling when navigating the site and reaching the users intended destintion.  
The site has also kept in mind visually impaired users as the website content relates to this area of disability, because of this all elements of the website are keyboard and screen reader accessible. 
### User stories 
#### First time visitor
-  As a first-time site visitor to the website, I want to understand what the site’s purpose is so that I can decide if it interests me
-  As a first-time site visitor, I want to be able to easily navigate the site so I can find the areas I am interested in.
-  As a first-time site visitor, I want to immediately understand what areas the group covers so that I can determine if I am local to the group.
-  As a first-time site visitor, I want to know more about the fundraising group
-  As a first-time site visitor, I want to find out how to volunteer
-  As a first-time site visitor, I want to get a feel of what to expect if I want to volunteer for the group
-  As a first-time site visitor, I want to be able to donate to the group
-  As a first-time site visitor, I want to be able to ask a question
#### Returning user
-  As a returning visitor, I want to see the latest upcoming event
-  As a returning visitor, I want to know what roles are currently available within the group
-  As a returning visitor, I want to be able to ask a question regarding a service or collaboration
-  As a returning visitor, I want to view photos of past events or collections
-  As a returning visitor, I want to visit the fundraising groups social media pages
-  As a returning visitor, I want to know how to book a talk from a speaker/GDO/Puppy walker for my group, school
#### Site owner
-  As the site owner, I want visitors to find information about upcoming events or collections
-  As the site owner, I want visitors to understand what the groups fundraising goals are, to find out more about the main charity and how it helps visually impaired people.
-  As the site owner, I want the site visitors to be able to contact the group regarding a service or ask a general question
-  As the site owner, I want site visitors to be able to donate to the group easily.

## Design
The design of the website was kept clean, clear to understand with header, hero section and footer kept consistent across pages for a good user experience (UX)  
The website is bright and cheerful to reflect the feel of the fundraising group.  
As a person with a visual impairment, the website was designed with screen magnification and screen readers in mind.  
### Structure of pages
The website uses a responsive mobile first layout approach which reflows to a maximum width of 1140px which becomes centre aligned on the page to maximise the users direct eye contact.  
#### Header section
The website has a left aligned logo from Mobile through to Desktop.
Located to the right is the main navigation, which is also responsive, this remains right aligned until tablet size where it will collapse to a right aligned Hamburger menu (toggle button).  
On devices tablet and below the user can expand/collapse the menu using the menu toggle button, the menu never obstructs site content instead pushes it down to reveal the full available menu items.  
#### Blockquote area
The blockquote area is used to display factual and motivational messages over various pages, the messages are used on the donate page for example to inform what a donation means to a charity, another example on the homepage is a factual quote from the NHS which totals the number of people living in the UK with a sight issue.  
#### Main content area
The main area changes it content based on the page selected from the navigation but remains consistent in its content presentation by providing a full width card or half page width card.  
This approach was decided upon so a user would know quickly how many areas were available to explore.  
The main content area has also been set with a consistent background surround to show clearly where the main page content starts and ends.  
#### Secondary main content area
This section always appears below the main content and is presented like the main content area with a surround colour to mark the area.  
This section holds complementary content based on the page selected and is used to add additional relevant areas of interest, the area shows two half page width cards on Desktop with the left card being highlighted as the most important card in this section.  
#### Footer section
The footer section was designed to be clean and useful; the footer displays with two half page sections both providing options for the user to interact with.  
The left side contains a simple but effective message asking if they have a question, the user can select the link to be directed to the contact form no matter the page they are on.  
The right side displays all available social media channels using social media icons, these links will enable a user to select a social media channel but remain on the current site as all external links open in a new window.  

### Wireframe designs
Wireframe designs show Mobile, Tablet and Desktop views.  
The site was developed using a mobile first approach.
#### HomePage
<details><summary>Mobile</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/mobile/iPhone-HomePage.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of mobile home page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Tablet</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/tablet/iPad-HomePage.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of tablet home page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Desktop</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/desktop/Desktop-HomePage.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of desktop home page layout"></details>

#### About us page
<details><summary>Mobile</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/mobile/iPhone-who_we_are_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of mobile about us page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Tablet</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/tablet/iPad-who_we_are_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of tablet about us page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Desktop</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/desktop/Desktop-who_we_are_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of desktop about us page layout"></details>

#### Fundraise page
<details><summary>Mobile</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/mobile/iPhone-Fundraise_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of mobile fundraise page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Tablet</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/tablet/iPad-Fundraise_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of tablet fundraise page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Desktop</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/desktop/Desktop-Fundraise_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of desktop fundraise page layout"></details>

#### Events & Collections page
<details><summary>Mobile</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/mobile/iPhone-events_and_collections_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of mobile events and collections page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Tablet</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/tablet/iPad-events_and_collections_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of tablet events and collections page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Desktop</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/desktop/Desktop-events_and_collections_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of desktop events and collections page layout"></details>

#### Contact us page
<details><summary>Mobile</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/mobile/iPhone-Contact_us_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of mobile contact us page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Tablet</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/tablet/iPad-Contact_us_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of tablet contact us page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Desktop</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/desktop/Desktop-Contact_us_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of desktop contact us page layout"></details>

#### Donate page
<details><summary>Mobile</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/mobile/iPhone-Donate_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of mobile donate page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Tablet</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/tablet/iPad-Donate_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of tablet donate page layout"></details>
<details><summary>Desktop</summary>
<img src="docs/wireframes/desktop/Desktop-Donate_page.png" alt="Wireframe screenshot of desktop donate page layout"></details>  

### Colour palette
![colour palette](docs/colours/Colour-scheme-MSP1.png)  
-  Light Cornflower Blue: #9cd5f4 / rgb(100, 149, 237) was used as this represents the blue colour polo shirts worn by volunteers when fundraising.
-  Naples Yellow: #fde06f / rgb(253, 224, 111) was used to represent a yellow Labrador colour which is the common colour associated with Guide dogs who are seen in public  

The three remaining colours were taken from the hero image used across the website, they represent an outdoor scheme with a feeling of nature which match with the groups fundraising goals to help visually impaired people gain their freedom and independence.  
-  Indigo Dye: #133c55 / rgb(19, 60, 85)
-  Honolulu Blue: #386fa4 / rgb(56, 111, 164)
-  Russian Green: #678d58 / rgb(103, 141, 88)  

Other standard colours used were white and shades of black.  
I used a tool called Contrast Grid [view live colour palette](https://contrast-grid.eightshapes.com/?version=1.1.0&background-colors=&foreground-colors=%239cd5f4%0D%0A%23fde06f%20%0D%0A%23133c55%0D%0A%23386fa4%0D%0A%23678d58%0D%0A%23ffffff%0D%0A%23000000&es-color-form__tile-size=compact&es-color-form__show-contrast=aaa&es-color-form__show-contrast=aa&es-color-form__show-contrast=aa18) to determine the foreground and background combinations to ensure a minimum contrast ratio of 4.5:1 was maintained.  
![Accessible colour palette](docs/colours/accessible-colour-schemes.png)
