docs/research.md, before:

# Planning Research
Researching into fundraising groups for charities, I established that most volunteer groups have used social media facilities such as Facebook pages or private group pages within a social platform.
This offers many features such as:
- Most people own a smartphone or computer today have access to these platforms
- The platform offers direct communication and shareability
The downsides for certain groups of people can be:
- It can be overwhelming for some users using assistive technology or an inexperienced or the older age group user of social media.
- Not all users want to sign up for an account to access information

It is worth noting that recently data collection and privacy have been highlighted through news reports and people are finding new alternative platforms to connect and find out information that they require.
Looking into what was available to the local fundraising group through the main charity, I found that.
- The charity does not currently offer ways for local fundraising groups to have a specific page within their main website to highlight local fundraising group activities or upcoming events
To share content this must be done through sharing through a social media page to the regional office or sending a request to post on the page.
This could mean posts may be missed if the regional office posts frequently or can delay a post appearing if there are current national campaigns happening at the same time.
The downside to a social platform is that while the reach can be vast, thee pages which share content must be followed or liked to see the post originally.

Commit message:

docs: added user questions to research document

docs/research.md, after:

# Planning Research
Researching into fundraising groups for charities, I established that most volunteer groups have used social media facilities such as Facebook pages or private group pages within a social platform.
This offers many features such as:
- Most people own a smartphone or computer today have access to these platforms
- The platform offers direct communication and shareability
The downsides for certain groups of people can be:
- It can be overwhelming for some users using assistive technology or an inexperienced or the older age group user of social media.
- Not all users want to sign up for an account to access information

It is worth noting that recently data collection and privacy have been highlighted through news reports and people are finding new alternative platforms to connect and find out information that they require.
Looking into what was available to the local fundraising group through the main charity, I found that.
- The charity does not currently offer ways for local fundraising groups to have a specific page within their main website to highlight local fundraising group activities or upcoming events  

To share content this must be done through sharing through a social media page to the regional office or sending a request to post on the page.
This could mean posts may be missed if the regional office posts frequently or can delay a post appearing if there are current national campaigns happening at the same time.
The downside to a social platform is that while the reach can be vast, thee pages which share content must be followed or liked to see the post originally.

## User research
The group were asked for their feedback in relation to the current way the group shares content online.  
The group currently has an active Facebook page where they share updates on events, collections, and activities.  
Responses have been condensed for consistency   
### Questions asked
Q. **How do you find using Facebook pages to stay up to date with our upcoming evets?**    
User. _‘Fairly easy if I see the notification, I get a lot and sometimes find it hard to re-find the post as Facebook changes the main timeline.’_  \
User. _‘I am not on Facebook; I wait for the direct email to let me know when our meetings are so I can volunteer for events’_

Q. **How easy is it to point friends and family to the types of events and collections you have volunteered at?**  
User. _‘I share the post from our page but never know if they have seen the post, I normally just take a few photos at the event myself’_  
User. _‘My mum gets confused as she says I follow the main charity page are you not on there?’_  

Q. **How often does the regional office highlight the group’s activities, collections, or events on their Facebook page?**  
User. _‘We have had a few but not all, the last year or so have been full of the pandemic and updates to help people during this time’_  
User. _‘We have had our large Name a Puppy sponsor donation or supermarket collection green token win shared, but our standard collections are normally just on our page.’_

Q. **If a family or friend would like to donate to the group, where would you direct them too?**  
User. _‘Probably direct them to our coordinator of the group but I have to be careful of GDPR as to not share too much information about them, probably the main website and not through the group’_  
User. _‘Try and get in touch with our regional office and ask them to contact them directly or the main website.’_

The group has a Facebook page and asks the person responsible for maintaining the page questions regarding the platform:

Q. **Are there any areas of the current Facebook page which do and do not work well for the group?**  
User. _‘The ability to share our posts to other pages is great but we have found not all local businesses like Facebook and have asked us for our website so they can see what we are about._  
_It is great that we can receive comments on our posts and receive feedback or a direct message, but we could share a website just as easily and the direct messages come to me not to the group coordinator or secretary to deal with.’_
